---
title: "Disabling the Dynamic MOTD in Ubuntu or Debian"
modified_date: "2021-03-27"
last_modified_at: "2021-03-27"
---
Ubuntu has been using `update-motd` as a MOTD (Message of the Day) generator for several years. Some of the default messages -- such as the number of available security patches -- can be helpful, but not everyone likes being greeted by a barrage of text every time they log in to their server. In this article, we'll explore how to adjust, disable, or replace the dynamic MOTD in Ubuntu.

## Before You Begin

If you'd rather work with `update-motd` than turn it off, detailed documentation for changing its output is available in the [man page for update-motd](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/bionic/man5/update-motd.5.html). Essentially, the dynamic MOTD is generated by a collection of executable scripts found in the `/etc/update-motd.d/` directory. These scripts can be updated, removed, or reordered, and new scripts can be added.

## Disabling the Dynamic MOTD

While Ubuntu does not provide a way to directly uninstall `update-motd`, it is possible to disable it by adjusting a few PAM options. Two lines, found in both `/etc/pam.d/login` and `/etc/pam.d/sshd`, control how `update-motd` runs on login:
```
session optional pam_motd.so motd=/run/motd.dynamic
session optional pam_motd.so noupdate
```

**Commenting out those lines in both files will prevent the `pam_motd.so` module from being loaded and will completely disable the dynamic MOTD.**

## Bonus Section: Enabling a Static MOTD

If you still want a message printed when you log in via SSH, you can configure OpenSSH to display a traditional static MOTD. From the [man page for sshd_config](https://linux.die.net/man/5/sshd_config):
> **PrintMotd:** Specifies whether **sshd** should print */etc/motd* when a user logs in interactively. (On some systems it is also printed by the shell, */etc/profile*, or equivalent.) The default is "yes".

Ubuntu disables this option by default and incorporates `/etc/motd` into its dynamic generator, but we can re-enable the option to make `/etc/motd` work again. Add or uncomment the following line in `/etc/ssh/sshd_config` and restart the OpenSSH daemon to have OpenSSH print `/etc/motd` on login:
```
PrintMotd yes
```

---

**References:**
- [disable everything in update-motd.d dir in ubuntu server - Super User](https://superuser.com/questions/375714/disable-everything-in-update-motd-d-dir-in-ubuntu-server)
- [server - How to disable welcome message after SSH login? - Ask Ubuntu](https://askubuntu.com/questions/676374/how-to-disable-welcome-message-after-ssh-login)
- [ssh - How do I disable the Message of the Day (MOTD) on Ubuntu 14.04? - Ask Ubuntu](https://askubuntu.com/questions/804095/how-do-i-disable-the-message-of-the-day-motd-on-ubuntu-14-04)
